Now let's take a look at the triangle dilemma.
The triangle dilemma is also known as the iron triangle. But I like the
term dilemma, because a dilemma is a situation in which a difficult choice
must be made between two or more alternatives,
especially when they are equally undesirable ones.
The triangle is composed of three competing elements,
requirements, schedule, and resources. If I have all the requirements up front,
then you can now estimate the scheduling resources for the project.
Sounds pretty easy.
The schedule can be predicted based along with the
necessary resources. And lastly, using the resource requirements,
you could probably predict the cost. For all this to work, it
assumes that the requirements are fixed,
and we know that requirements are never fixed. They ebb and flow.
We also know that management will edict schedule changes at
any time. That in turn will affect the requirements and
costs, or the budget is reduced,
which in turn will also affect the requirements and schedule.
Requirements, schedule, and resources are at odds with each other.
If one changes,
then one or both of the others must change. Regardless, we then use
our project management process we discussed earlier and march forward,
hanging onto our waterfall for dear life.
Let's talk quality, the fourth and sometimes forgotten side of the triangle.
Since the requirements are fixed,
the schedule is fixed, and the resources are fixed, there's only
one thing that will suffer and suffer indeed,
and that's quality.
So we cut corners to meet our resource allocation and schedule
that was dictated, or new requirements were presented but we were
not allowed to lengthen the schedule.
It is a miracle the industry did as well as it did.
But as all things in life, we learned from our failures.
A company's investment business model goes something like this: develop
business cases, determine the return on investment,
get executive approvals, secure funding, and launch the project.
And off you go, hoping to salvage your career.
I think some form of waterfall may be with us for many years to come,
believe it or not. And you've probably heard of the term scrumfall,
which is a blend of both kind of mushed together. A company's business
model will influence the software requirements development methods.
Though you will hopefully be using agile,
lean, or other,
more modern methods, your company's business processes that
envelope you will likely impede your flexibility,
so be prepared to adapt.
Do not be hardcore and say you will do 100% scrum or no matter
what. It may not work in your company without enterprise‑level understanding and buy‑in of agile and lean.